Revenue: Total amount of income generated by sale of goods or services related to companies primary operations. This is the number before taking out the expenses. Also knows as "TOP LINE"
COGS(Cost of goods sold): COGS only applies to those costs directly related to producing goods intended for sale.
Operating expenses: Expenses related to the core business of the company. But these are not tied to production of goods and services. It includes SG&A(sales, general and administative) Eg. RnD cost, payroll, insurance, marketing and inventory cost.
Non-operating expenses: Expenses not related to company's primary or core business. Eg. interest payment, costs from currency exchanges.
Profits:
  Gross profit: Total Revenue - Cost of goods sold(COGS). It does not include operating expenses. COGS represents direct labor, direct materials or raw materials and portion of manufactirinng overhead that is tied to the production facility. COGS does not include cost of indirect expenses like cost of corporate office. Gross profit reflects the revenue left to fund the business after accounting for the costs of prdouction.
  EBITDA: (Gross Profit - Non-operating expenses). Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization.
  Earnings before interest and tax(EBIT): (Total revenue - COGS - Operating Expenses - Depreciation - Amortization)
  Operating profit(Operating income): (Opearting revenue - COGS - Operating Expenses - Depreciation - Amortization). Its the gross profit remaining after accounting for all the costs of the business. In addition to COGS this includes fixed cost expenses as rent and insurance, variable expenes, such as freight and shipping, payroll and utilities as well as amortization and depreciation of assets. However it does not include interest payments on debts, tax expense or additional income from investments. So , operating profit reflects the profitability of company's operations. 
  Income or Net profit: Also called as "NET INCOME" or "BOTTOM LINE". Its revenues minus cost of doing business such as depreciation, interest, taxes and other expenses.  Its arguabily the most important financial metric reflecting company's ability to generate profit for owners and shareholders alike. From operatng profit figure, debt expenses such as loan interest, taxes and onetime entries for unusual expenses such as lawsuits or equipment purchases are all substracted. All additional income from secondary operations or investments and one-time payments for things such as sale of the assests are added.
Cash flow: It refers to the net amount of cash and cash equivalents being transferred in and out of a company. Companys ability to create value for shareholders is fundamentally determined by its ability to generate positive cash flows or more specifically to maximize long-term free cash flow(FCF).
  FCF: Its cash generated by a company from its normal business operations after substracting any money spent on Capital Expenditure(CapEx).
  Quality of operating cashflow(OCF): Its characterized by positive OCF which is derived from sustainable sources and is sufficient to cover capital expenditure, dividends and debt repayments. Also, its relatively less volatile compared to industry peers.Its less subjective and hence less easily manipulated than net income. Significant differences in earnings and OCF or widening in such differences overtime indicate earnings manipulation.  
Balance sheet: One time snapshot of company's assets and liabilities.
Income statement: Indicates business's profitability during a certain period
Cashflow statement: Acts as checkbook that reconciles other 2 statements . It records company's cash transactions during given period. It shows whether all the revenues booked on the income statement have been collected. 
Net Cash flow: Net increase or decrease in cash and cash equivalents.
Enterprise value(EV): (Market Capital + Total Debt - Cash and Cash Equivalents). Its a therotical takeover price if company were to be bought.
Working Capital: Current assets - Current liabilities. If conpany has substantial positive net NWC  then it should have the potential to invest and grow. If current assets do not exceed the current liabilities then it may have trouble paying back creditors.
Earning per share(EPS): (Profit / #outstanding shares of its common stock). The higher a companies EPS the more profitable its considered to be.
Shareholders equity: Total assets - short term debt - longerm debt.
Profit margins(Net profit margins):
  Used to gauge the degree to which a company or a business activity makes money.
  Gross profit margins: (Net sales - COGS)/ Net Sales. Provides company's rawest profitability picture.
  Operating profit margins(or Operating margins): (Operating income/ Revenue) * 100. Used by bankers and analysts to value an entire company for potential buyouts.
  Net profit margins: (Net profits or income / Net sales or revenue) * 100. Profit margins comparison within same sector is more appropriate than across the sectors. Profit margins tells about profit generating capacity of a business and is a top level indicator of its potential. Margins come handy when company seeks funding. 
    Examples of low margin business, Retail, Transportation. These business will have high volume and turnaround which will make up for the high profits despite relatively low margins. Example, Walmart , Target etc.
    Examples of high margin business, high end luxery goods. These have low sales but high profit per unit make up for the high profit margins. Example Microsoft, Alphabet/Google
  
  
Financial Ratios:
EV/EBITDA :
  It may be more useful when comparing the firms with different degrees of financial leverage.
  Its useful for valuing capital intensive business with high level of depreciation and amortization.
P/E(Market value per share/EPS):
  Also called as price multiple or earnings multiple.
  It measures current share price relative to the EPS(Earning per share).
  P/E can be backword looking(trailing) or forward(Projected)
  High P/E means company is overvalued or investors are expecting high growth rates in future.
  If company is trading at P/E multiple of 20X, the interpretation is that investor is ready to pay $20 for $1 of current earnings
  
 Profitability Ratios:
  This is class of financial metrics that are used to assess a business's ability to generate earnings relative to its revenue, operating costs, balance sheet assets, or shareholders equity overtime using data from a specific time.
  Most profitability ratios have having higher value relative to competitor's ratio or relative to same ratio from previous period indicates that the company is doing well. These are most useful when compared to similar companies, companies own history or average ratios of companys from own industry.
  For seasonal business's its useful to compare the ratios of same quarter of last year instead of the consecutive quarters.
  These fall in 2 categories margin ratios and return ratios
  Margin ratios give insights from several different angles, on a company's ability to turn sales in to profits. Eg. Gross Profit margin, Operating profit margin and Net profit margin.
  Return ratios offer several different ways to examine how well a company generates a return for its shaeholders.Eg. ROA, ROE, ROCE, ROIC
    ROA(Retun on assets):(Net income/ Total Assets)
      The More assets company has amassed, the more sales and profits the company may generate. As economies of scale lower cost and improve margins, returns may grow at a faster rate than the assets, ultimately increasing the ROA.
    ROE(Return on Equity):(Net income/ Shareholders equity)
      It measures company's ability to earn returns on its equity investment.
    ROCE(Return on capital employed): (EBIT/ Capital Employed) ; Capital employed = Total assets - Current liabilities
      Useful when comparing the performance of the companies in capital intensive sector like utilities and telecoms.
      While ROE analyzes profitability related to company's shareholders equity, ROCE considers debt and equity. This can help to neutralize financial performance for companies with significant debt.
      Calculation of ROCE tells the amount of profit a company is generating per $1 of capital employed. Thus higher ROCE indicates stronger profitability across comparisons.
      High level of cash can skew this metric
    ROIC(Return on invested capital): (Net operating profit after tax/Invested capital)
      It should be compared to company's cost of capital to determine whether company is creating value.
      Firms with higher ROIC will trade at premium.
      Common benchmark is 2% above company's cost of capital.
      Company running at zero return level may not have excess capital to invet in future growth.
      THis metric along with ROCE is important for capital intensive business.
      Invested capital: Total amount of money raised by a company by issuing securities- which is sum of company's equity, debt and capital lease obligations.
      Net operating profit after taxes(NOPAT): (Operating profit) * (1 - effective tax rate)
      
Bottom up investing approach:
  Investor analyzes a company first rather than macroeconomic indicators.
  They will look for the companies that they believe will perform well over time based on determinants like management team, P/E and earning growth potential.
  They will pay little attention to market conditions or industry fundamentals and focus on how one company in a sector is performing compared to another one in order to choose the stock they believe is more likely to rise in price.
  Here investors invest for longer term compared to top down approach investors.
  Investors will look for the fundamentals first.
  The stock may go down when overall market goes down but these investors expect that it will rise aaing and outperform as the overall market improves.
  
Top down inevesting:
  Investors will analyze the GDP, lowering or raising interest rates, inflation and the price of commodities to see where the stock markets are headed.
  They will also check the overall sector or industry that the stock is in.
  These investors might choose toinvest in a country or a region if its economy is doing well.
  Short term investors may use  top down approach as thery are looking to profit off of swings in the market, which occur based on forces outside of the company itself.
  They will get out of the stocks more often than the bottom up investors will.
  Both approaches are  valid and should be considered when designing a portfolio of companies to invest in. Just know why you are purchaing the stocks you are buying, consider the necessary factors and be aware of the market trends.
  
  
  
      
Ecnomies of scale
      These are the cost advantages reaped by company when production becomes efficient.
      Companies achieve economies of scale by increasing production and reducing costs. This happends because the costs are spread over larger number of goods. Costs can be both fixed and variable.
      For example a business migght enjoy economies of scale concerning its bulk purchasing. By buying large number of products at one it could negotiate a lower price per unit than its compititors. Reorganizing the internal resources is also a way to realize internal economies of scale.
      One example of economies of scale is network effect.
      
Operating leverage:
  It is a cost accounting formula that measures the degree to which a firm or project can increase operating income by increasing revenue.
  A business which generates sales with high gross margins and low variable costs has high operating leverage.
  Operating leverage formula is used to calculate a company's break-even point and help set appropriate selling prices to cover all costs and generate profit.
  Fixed cost items includes warehouse, machinery, equipments.
  The more profit a company can squeeze out of the same amount of fixed assets, the higher its operating leverage.
      
